now the UN senior humanitarian and
reconstruction coordinator for Gaza says
moving Aid by land Remains the most
effective way to get supplies into the
strip Juliet Tuma is head of
communications from unra joins us now
from man Julet first of all let's this
phrase of the day a lot of heads
scratching about this uh Port plan and
the maritime route from Cyprus what's
your take on
it look at any increas the flow of
humanitarian Aid into the Gaza Strip is
a very welcome all we're saying is that
there is a more efficient and easier and
cheaper way to bring in much needed
supplies into the Gaza Strip and that is
via the road including sending more
trucks from Israel to the Gaza Strip can
you spell out for us why it is so
difficult to get Aid in Via Ro the most
simple routin
well it shouldn't be you see that's the
whole point is that it's so easy there
are several Crossing points that connect
the state of Israel with the Gaza Strip
this is uh what we used before the war
started on the 7th of October uh when
there was a regular flow of about 500
trucks every day including Commercial
Supplies so it shouldn't be uh
complicated at all when there is a
political will there is a
way right well is is there a political
will there has been very very little Aid
coming into Gaza over the past five
months uh The Siege on the Gaza Strip
has been extremely TI authorizations to
anra and other United Nations agencies
to travel North and bring in much needed
Food Supplies as one examples have not
been given sufficiently so there needs
to be much more
the political will does seem to now be
focused at the moment with a sudden
flurry uh of interest on these
alternative Roots including the maritime
uh plan through Cyprus are you concerned
that there's an effort here to sideline
un and Aid operations to potentially car
and
out our top concern is for people in
Gaza who have been through so so much
over the past five months to get the
very minimum we are on the verge of
famine in some parts of the north of the
Gaza Strip so any uh help any
humanitarian assistance is uh very
welcome it has to be efficient it has to
be smooth and there has to be much more
but are you sensing that unra is being
sidelined here it is what Israel wants
isn't
it look we are on the ground and we will
continue to work and we will continue to
deliver we also need more there's work
plenty of work for for everyone out
there in in Gaza the situation is very
very bad and all efforts needs to be
need to be concerted so that more Aid
get to people in need that's what's key
we've been seeing Aid air drops coming
in Aid coming in via air and
unfortunately there's been tragic news
of fatalities from those air drops and
the aird drops are are very very
ineffective anyway is that
right exactly why I said in the
beginning there is a much more efficient
and easier way to send uh supplies and
humanitarian Aid into Gaza and that's
through the road um using the crossings
there are plenty of them that connect
Israel with the gaza's trp how urgently
do we need a ceasefire in
Gaza long overdue we needed it on day
two of the war we are now five months on
and and and Counting it's absolutely
absolutely urgent too many lives have
been lost totally
unnecessarily it is time it is it is
overdue in fact jul Tuma we appreciate
your time thanks for joining us here on
aler